Ho Chi Minh	Communist leader of North Vietnam
Who led nationalist China in the Chinese Civil War?	Chiang Kai-shek
Who led communist China in the Chinese Civil War?	Mao Zedong
How did Deng Xiaoping impact China's economy?	Transitioned China from a communist economy to a market economy
One of the reasons for the fall of the Soviet Union was	All of the above
What symbolized the end of the Soviet Union	Fall of the Berlin Wall
Why did Stalin want to maintain a Soviet sphere of influence in Eastern Europe?	to create a buffer zone of friendly states to protect the USSR
Why did the Soviets halt all land travel to West Berlin in June of 1948?	 to block plans for the creation of a West German state
The idea that if one country attacks another country with a nuclear weapon, the other country will retaliate with a nuclear weapon of their own is called	Mutual Assured Destruction
What decision was made at the Yalta Conference in 1945?	To divide Germany into 4 occupation zones
Red Scare	fear that communists were working to destroy the American way of life
Yalta	FDR, Churchill and Stalin met. Russia agreed to declare war on Japan after the surrender of Germany and in return FDR and Churchill promised the USSR concession in Manchuria and the territories that it had lost in the Russo-Japanese War. Agreed to split Germany into 4 occupation zones.
The countries in blue are all members of NATO. This meant they	would defend on another if attacked
How did the Korean war end?	the war ended in a stalemate
How did the Vietnam War end?	all of Vietnam became communist
What weapon did both the US and the Soviet Union develop in the 1950s?	hydrogen bomb
What happened to the Soviet Union in 1991	it broke apart into Russia and 14 other countries
Why was the Cold War named such?	This war was fought using ideas and propaganda instead of guns.
Space Race	A competition of space exploration between the United States and Soviet Union.
Berlin Wall	A wall separating East and West Berlin built by East Germany in 1961 to keep citizens from escaping to the West
Detente	relaxation of tensions between the United States and its two major Communist rivals, the Soviet Union and China
Berlin Airlift	Joint effort by the US and Britain to fly food and supplies into West Berlin after the Soviet blocked off all ground routes into the city
Warsaw Pact	An alliance between the Soviet Union and other Eastern European nations. This was in response to the NATO
Cuban Missile Crisis	The 1962 confrontation bewteen US and the Soviet Union over Soviet missiles in Cuba
Coup d'etat	A sudden overthrow of the government by a small group
Vietnam War	A military conflict between South Vietnam, supported by American forces, and Communist North Vietnam. The war resulted in a North Vietnamese victory and unification of Vietnam under Communist rule.
Domino Theory	The US theory that stated, if one country would fall to Communism then they all would.
Sputnik	First artificial Earth satellite, it was launched by Moscow in 1957 and sparked U.S. fears of Soviet dominance in technology and outer space. It led to the creation of NASA and the space race.
Truman Doctrine	President Truman's policy of providing economic and military aid to any country threatened by communism or totalitarian ideology
NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization)	Military alliance created in 1949 made up of 12 non-Communist countries including the United States that support each other if attacked.
U.S. idea of stopping the spread of Communism:	Containment
What was the goal of America in the Korean War? 	Stop the spread of communism
What was the dividing line between South Korea and North Korea?	38th Parallel
Who replaced Truman during the Cold War in the 1950s?	Eisenhower
Which one of these did the Soviet Union follow?	Communism 
Which one is not a main cause for the Cold War?	Need for Land
What was the main goal of the Marshall Plan? 	Rebuild Western Europe after WWII
What was the term that described the division in Europe? 	Iron Curtain 